---
layout: post
title: Bicycle
date: 2014-10-07T14:19:00.000Z
author: Nevena
image: bikes-01.jpg
tags:
  - Tokyo
  - Bicycle
  - Mamachari
comments: true
rating: 4.5
---
In Tokyo, people are extensively using bicycles, jitensha (自 転 車). It is a significant means of transportation for moderately long distances. The government, as a form of energy saving and environmental protection measures, encourages the bicycle as a mode of transport with various conveniences and facilities. At any time of the day, you can see well-dressed workers who travel to work on a bike, mothers with children full of shopping bags, old fellow citizens, pets in baskets, schoolchildren...

There are mostly bike lanes, although they are often combined with the sidewalk, which can be quite disturbing for pedestrians (at least for this particular pedestrian). Each residential building or a house has a specially provided parking for bicycles. It is expected that at least one member will ride a bike, which means a serious number of two-wheelers in the nine-million city center. The bicycle is often parked on the sidewalk, even unsecured, although it is not impossible to steal it. Of course, in the economical organization of space, there are not enough sidewalks for everyone. If the bicycle is not in the parking lot or if it bothers you, it is taken away by bicycle services. However, Tokyo is also a tidy and organized city, with a huge inspiration for all kinds of life aids. In accordance with all these features, they have devised an original way to place a large number of bicycles in a public place. Bicycle garage, underground, electronic ... efficient and very elegant.

{% youtube pcZSU40RBrg %}

Bicycle rental is a convenient option and quite affordable. Several services and rental centers around the city provide this type of support to locals and foreigners, either for daily or extended rides. The new practical concept of *[Suicle](http://suicle.jp/about.html)* is a community for picking up and leaving bicycles at several ports around the city, similar to the use of trains. Payment is also simple, with the unified *Suica* system, which is normally used for transportation, but also with cash or by card. Everything is of course automated, and the price for e.g. a month hop on hop off is 2500 yen. The project was carried out by Panasonic.

Buying a bicycle is almost mandatory for residents, at least as a relief in daily activities. It is accompanied by registration. If the bicycle is new, one needs to simply report it the police with the proof of purchase and will get a registration sticker. When bike is second hand, the bureaucracy is a bit complicated by the transfer of ownership, proof of origin... The basic model, which is ubiquitous and the most favorable is *mamachari*, literally means a bicycle for mothers. It is simple, has a bell, one gear, locks, and the inevitable basket for small things.

Mamachari is the main ally of hardworking moms in shopping, transporting children, daily obligations. Easily upgraded as needed ...

An interesting option, *[TokyoBike](http://www.tokyobike.com/concept.html)* offers bicycles and accessories. They explain their name through the example: Mountain bike was created for mountain, and Tokyo bike for Tokyo. The chain of stores of this manufacturer can be found in all major metropolises where the bicycle is an important part of everyday life.

The Japanese take care of good life habits, physical activity and health, they like to spend time in nature and cycling as a sport fits in perfectly. And cycling as an activity is becoming more and more popular with the local population.

There are many routes in the city and by nature for hobby riders. There are organizations that take tourists on bicycles to get to know Tokyo. Also, throughout the year, several organized themed rides are nurtured - long tours, adventurous, ascent to Fuji San, as well as traditional city rides. On certain weekends, some attractive routes are closed for car traffic, such as the surroundings of the Imperial Palace, which creates a special atmosphere in circling the city.

The cycling organization organizes and celebrates [Pedal day Tokyo](http://pedallife.com/), through a month and a half of various events related to this topic. The major event is at the end of August, with an unusual nudist night ride through Tokyo.